# mushroomdata
Mushrooms are highly regarded due to their nutritional composition, they are good source of vitamin D, helps to fight cancer, good for heart patients, helps to treat anemia and improves body immunity. Though some mushrooms are used for medical purposes, other are poisonous and many contain many side effects. Some side effects include dizziness, breathing problems, vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration and may even lead to death. Mainly, wild mushrooms can be highly dangerous, as there is not proper knowledge and training in mushroom identification. Moreover, it is difficult to identify the difference between poisoned and edible mushrooms manually based on few physical features like, shape, color, and odor. 
Therefore, it is needed to automate this process and building a model can be helpful to identify and avoid poisonous mushrooms. In this report, we will classify the edible and poisonous mushrooms by analyzing the different attributes and behavioral features namely cap attributes, gill, stalk, odor, veil-type, and habitat of the mushrooms
<h1>Data Cleaning:</h1> 
The first step in data preprocessing and one of the essential phases is data cleaning, to check data is clean without any duplicate values and there are no missing values. This is essential as there will be techniques and algorithms applied in later stages, that’s going to have dependency on this stage. Missing values are regarded as infections with few exceptions (Wickham & Sievert, 2016). I performed missing value analysis for every feature; there were no missing values in any attribute. This process is analyzed with multiple functions as given below:
